---
code: 210
internalName: TooManyLocalsViolation
title: 'Found too many local variables: {0}'
---

{% import "macros.html" as macros with context %}

Forbid too many local variables in the unit of code.

  - Reasoning:  
    Having too many variables in a single function is a bad thing. Soon,
    you will have trouble understanding what this variable means. It
    will also become hard to name new variables.

  - Solution:  
    If you have too many variables in a function, you have to refactor
    it.

What counts as a local variable? We only count a variable as local in
the following case: it is assigned inside the function body. We do not
count variables defined inside comprehensions as local variables, since
it is impossible to use them outside of the comprehension.

Example:

    def first_function(param):
        first_var = 1
    
    def second_function(argument):
        second_var = 1
        argument = int(argument)
        third_var, _ = some_call()

In this example we will count as locals only several variables:

1.  `first_var`, because it is assigned inside the function's body
2.  `second_var`, because it is assigned inside the function's body
3.  `argument`, because it is reassigned inside the function's body
4.  `third_var`, because it is assigned inside the function's body

Please, note that `_` is a special case. It is not counted as a local
variable. Since by design it means: do not count me as a real variable.

  - Configuration:  
    This rule is configurable with `--max-local-variables`. Default:
    `wemake_python_styleguide.options.defaults.MAX_LOCAL_VARIABLES`

<div class="versionadded">

0.1.0

</div>