---
code: S502
internalName: ''
title: Test for SSL use with bad version used
---

Several highly publicized exploitable flaws have been discovered in all
versions of SSL and early versions of TLS. It is strongly recommended
that use of the following known broken protocol versions be avoided:

  - SSL v2
  - SSL v3
  - TLS v1
  - TLS v1.1

This plugin test scans for calls to Python methods with parameters that
indicate the used broken SSL/TLS protocol versions. Currently, detection
supports methods using Python's native SSL/TLS support and the pyOpenSSL
module. A HIGH severity warning will be reported whenever known broken
protocol versions are detected.

It is worth noting that native support for TLS 1.2 is only available in
more recent Python versions, specifically 2.7.9 and up, and 3.x

A note on 'SSLv23':

Amongst the available SSL/TLS versions provided by Python/pyOpenSSL
there exists the option to use SSLv23. This very poorly named option
actually means "use the highest version of SSL/TLS supported by both the
server and client". This may (and should be) a version well in advance
of SSL v2 or v3. Bandit can scan for the use of SSLv23 if desired, but
its detection does not necessarily indicate a problem.

When using SSLv23 it is important to also provide flags to explicitly
exclude bad versions of SSL/TLS from the protocol versions considered.
Both the Python native and pyOpenSSL modules provide the `OP_NO_SSLv2`
and `OP_NO_SSLv3` flags for this purpose.

**Config Options:**

```yaml
ssl_with_bad_version:
    bad_protocol_versions:
        - PROTOCOL_SSLv2
        - SSLv2_METHOD
        - SSLv23_METHOD
        - PROTOCOL_SSLv3  # strict option
        - PROTOCOL_TLSv1  # strict option
        - SSLv3_METHOD    # strict option
        - TLSv1_METHOD    # strict option
```

  - Example

<!-- end list -->

```
>> Issue: ssl.wrap_socket call with insecure SSL/TLS protocol version
identified, security issue.
   Severity: High   Confidence: High
   Location: ./examples/ssl-insecure-version.py:13
12  # strict tests
13  ssl.wrap_socket(ssl_version=ssl.PROTOCOL_SSLv3)
14  ssl.wrap_socket(ssl_version=ssl.PROTOCOL_TLSv1)
```

See Also:

    - :func:`ssl_with_bad_defaults`
    - :func:`ssl_with_no_version`
    - http://heartbleed.com/
    - https://poodlebleed.com/
    - https://security.openstack.org/
    - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_move-data-securely.html

<div class="versionadded">

0.9.0

</div>