---
code: S603
internalName: ''
title: Test for use of subprocess without shell equals true
---

Python possesses many mechanisms to invoke an external executable.
However, doing so may present a security issue if appropriate care is
not taken to sanitize any user provided or variable input.

This plugin test is part of a family of tests built to check for process
spawning and warn appropriately. Specifically, this test looks for the
spawning of a subprocess without the use of a command shell. This type
of subprocess invocation is not vulnerable to shell injection attacks,
but care should still be taken to ensure validity of input.

Because this is a lesser issue than that described in
<span class="title-ref">subprocess\_popen\_with\_shell\_equals\_true</span>
a LOW severity warning is reported.

See also:

  - `../plugins/linux_commands_wildcard_injection`
  - `../plugins/subprocess_popen_with_shell_equals_true`
  - `../plugins/start_process_with_no_shell`
  - `../plugins/start_process_with_a_shell`
  - `../plugins/start_process_with_partial_path`

**Config Options:**

This plugin test shares a configuration with others in the same family,
namely <span class="title-ref">shell\_injection</span>. This
configuration is divided up into three sections,
<span class="title-ref">subprocess</span>,
<span class="title-ref">shell</span> and
<span class="title-ref">no\_shell</span>. They each list Python calls
that spawn subprocesses, invoke commands within a shell, or invoke
commands without a shell (by replacing the calling process)
respectively.

This plugin specifically scans for methods listed in
<span class="title-ref">subprocess</span> section that have shell=False
specified.

```yaml
shell_injection:
    # Start a process using the subprocess module, or one of its
    wrappers.
    subprocess:
        - subprocess.Popen
        - subprocess.call
```

  - Example

<!-- end list -->

```
>> Issue: subprocess call - check for execution of untrusted input.
   Severity: Low   Confidence: High
   Location: ./examples/subprocess_shell.py:23
22
23    subprocess.check_output(['/bin/ls', '-l'])
24
```

See Also:

    - https://security.openstack.org
    - https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#frequently-used-arguments
    - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_avoid-shell-true.html
    - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_use-subprocess-securely.html

<div class="versionadded">

0.9.0

</div>